README.md, before:

# Ri3D-2025
Official code from the UMN Robotics team for the 2025 Ri3D/FRC season!
 
Our robot subsystems include:
1) **Drivetrain:** We chose to use a mecanum drive this year for better maneuverability compared to tank drive, and our available drivetrain commands include driving a specific distance, turning to a specific angle using a NavX gyroscope, and autonomously aiming at an Apriltag target and driving within range of it.
2) **Elevator:** The elevator subsystem raises and lowers and has an end effector that is responsible for scoring the coral game elements.
3) **Intake:** The intake subsystem is responsible for collecting Algae game elements from the floor. We chose to go with an intake roller powered by a NEO 550 motor, and it is actuated in and out a NEO motor heavily geared down.
4) **Climber:** Our climber is a passive mechanism on the linear actuator of the elevator. We are still working on it!
5) **Vision:** We are running a Photonvision pipeline on an Orange Pi 5 to detect Apriltags, and we can track and follow either the nearest Apriltag or an Apriltag with a specific ID.
6) **LED Subsystem:** We wrote code for controlling RGB LED strips using a REV Blinkin LED driver to add some extra bling to our robot!
7) **Power Subsystem:** This subsystem is for reading data from the REV PDH, such as the current draw of specific channels.

How to get set up for FRC programming:
1) Install the latest 2025 release of WPILib and the latest 2025 release of the NI FRC Game tools.
2) Use this open-source Ri3D repository as a template for your code if you'd like! :)

Our project is created using the "Timed Robot" template/style and our code is written in Java.

Commit message:

Coral elevator autonomous harri (#8)
* set up Alpha build Elevator and End Effector code.

* Enabled D Pad functionality in controlling the
Elevator and Finger and (hopefuly) got it all functioning
REQUIRES TUNING

* Created five presets, Neutral, Player Intake,
    Low Score, Mid Score, and High score.
Finger Manual toggle added.
Rebound manual Elevator control to bumpers. (Intake rebound to triggers)
Removed Drop and Grab commands and keybinds.

* Clean up unused imports

* Added the elevator controls back

* Added manual control for End Effector.
Added Horizontal Intake preset.
Minor docstring edits.

* Rough tuned Elevator height presets.
    Player Intake preset was found to be redundant to Neutral preset and was removed.
Keybinds reworked.
Minor nomenclature rework for readability.

* Coral Elevator README update.

* servo works now

* Fixed isFinished functions in preset commands.

* Reworked preset keybinds

* End Effector Finger system swapped for a wheel.
Changed all references to "lower" motor to "arm" motor for clarity.
Changed wheel keybinds to prev and start. (B is now free)

* Swapped WHEEL_INTAKE and WHEEL_OUTTAKE fix

* Enabled second climb motor for elevator

* added gravity comp to coralElevatorSetPositionArmCommand

* Update Constants.java

* Update Robot.java

* Update Robot.java

---------

Co-authored-by: SpiderEye6 <Harrisonzrede@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Anthony Brogni <anthonybrog@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Harri Rede <rede0065@umn.edu>
Co-authored-by: KeerthanKrish <keerthankkrish@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: imaweasle <lydiaschieffer@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Ri3D-2025
Official code from the UMN Robotics team for the 2025 Ri3D/FRC season!
 
Our robot subsystems include:
1) **Drivetrain:** We chose to use a mecanum drive this year for better maneuverability compared to tank drive, and our available drivetrain commands include driving a specific distance, turning to a specific angle using a NavX gyroscope, and autonomously aiming at an Apriltag target and driving within range of it.
2) **Coral Elevator:** This subsystem controls the Elevator and the End Effector, the systems used to manipulate Coral. The Elevator height, End Effector arm, and End Effector wheel all have manual control options as well as five presets for different scoring modes and other functions. All motors in this system are NEO 550 motors.
3) **Intake:** The intake subsystem is responsible for collecting Algae game elements from the floor. We chose to go with an intake roller powered by a NEO 550 motor, and it is actuated in and out a NEO motor heavily geared down.
4) **Climber:** Our climber is a passive mechanism on the linear actuator of the elevator. We are still working on it!
5) **Vision:** We are running a Photonvision pipeline on an Orange Pi 5 to detect Apriltags, and we can track and follow either the nearest Apriltag or an Apriltag with a specific ID.
6) **LED Subsystem:** We wrote code for controlling RGB LED strips using a REV Blinkin LED driver to add some extra bling to our robot!
7) **Power Subsystem:** This subsystem is for reading data from the REV PDH, such as the current draw of specific channels.

How to get set up for FRC programming:
1) Install the latest 2025 release of WPILib and the latest 2025 release of the NI FRC Game tools.
2) Use this open-source Ri3D repository as a template for your code if you'd like! :)

Our project is created using the "Timed Robot" template/style and our code is written in Java.
